p8105_hw1_dap2189
================
2025-09-13

``` r
library(moderndive)
data("early_january_weather")
```

This rmkdwn document looks at

\#Problem 1 This problem focuses the use of inline R code, plotting, and
the behavior of ggplot for variables of different types.

Use the code below to download the a package containing the penguins
dataset:

install.packages(“moderndive”) You only need to run this command once to
install the package, and you can do so directly in the console. This
code shouldn’t be executed by your RMarkdown file.

Load the moderndive library, and use the following code to load the
early_january_weather dataset:

data(“early_january_weather”) Write a short description of the dataset
using inline R code; accessing the dataset help file can be informative.
In your discussion, please include:

the variables in this dataset, including names / values of important
variables the size of the dataset (using nrow and ncol) the mean
temperature Make a scatterplot of temp (y) vs time_hour (x); color
points using the humid variable (adding color = … inside of aes in your
ggplot code should help). Describe patterns that are apparent in this
plot.

Export your scatterplot to your project directory using ggsave.

\#Problem 2 This problem is intended to emphasize variable types and
introduce coercion; some awareness of how R treats numeric, character,
and factor variables is necessary for working with these data types in
practice.

Create a data frame comprised of:

a random sample of size 10 from a standard Normal distribution a logical
vector indicating whether elements of the sample are greater than 0 a
character vector of length 10 a factor vector of length 10, with 3
different factor “levels” Try to take the mean of each variable in your
dataframe. What works and what doesn’t?

Hint: for now, to take the mean of a variable in a dataframe, you need
to pull the variable out of the dataframe. Try loading the tidyverse and
using the pull function.

In some cases, you can explicitly convert variables from one type to
another. Write a code chunk that applies the as.numeric function to the
logical, character, and factor variables (please show this chunk but not
the output). What happens, and why? Does this help explain what happens
when you try to take the mean?
